and there with Sanders with
his hand
overer the Koran.
Take a listen.
Today begins a new era.
I stand before you,
moved by the privilege
of taking this sacred oath,
humbled by the faith that
you have placed in me,
and honored to serve
as either your 111th or
112th mayor
of New York City.
But I do not stand alone.
I stand alongside you,
the tens of thousands
of you gathered here in
Lower Manhattan,
warmed against the January
chill
by the resurgent flame of
hope.
I stand alongside countless
more New Yorkers
watching from cramped
kitchens in Flushing
and barbershops in East New
York,
from cell phones propped
against the dashboards
of parked taxicabs at
LaGuardia,
from hospitals in Mott
Haven and libraries
in El Barrio that have too
long known only neglect.
I stand alongside
construction workers
in steel-toed boots and
halal cart vendors
whose knees ache from I'm
working all day.
I stand alongside neighbors
who
carry a plate of food
to the elderly couple down
the hall,
those in a rush who still
lift
stranger's strollers up
subway stairs,
and every person who makes
the choice day
after day,
even when it feels
impossible to
call our city home.
I stand alongside over one
million New Yorkers
who voted for this day
nearly two months ago.
And I stand just as
resolutely
alongside those who did not.
I know there are some who
view
this administration with
distrust or disdain,
or who see politics as
permanently broken.
And while only action can
change minds,
I promise you this,
if you are a New Yorker, I
am your mayor.
Regardless of whether we
agree,
I will protect you,
celebrate with you,
mourn alongside you,
and never, not for a
second, hide from you.
I thank the labor and
movement leaders
here today, the activists,
and the elected officials
who will
return to fighting for New
Yorkers
the second this ceremony
concludes.
And the performers who have
gifted us
with their talent.
To Governor Hochul, thank
you as well.
To Mayor Adams, Dorothy's
son,
a son of Brownsville who
rose
from washing dishes to the
highest position
in our city for being here
as well.
He and I have had our share
of disagreements,
but I will always be touched
that he chose me as the
mayoral candidate
that he would most want to
be trapped
with on an elevator.
Thank you to the two titans
who,
as an assembly member,
I've had the privilege
of being represented by in
Congress,
Nidia Velasquez and our
incredible
opening speaker Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez.
You have paved the way for
this moment.
Thank you to the man whose
leadership
I seek most to emulate,
who I am so grateful to be
sworn in by today,
Senator Bernie Sanders.
Thank you to my teams from
the Assembly to
to the campaign, to the
transition,
and now the team I am so
excited to lead
from City Hall.
Thank you to my parents,
Mama and Baba,
for raising me,
for teaching me how to be
in this world
and for having brought me
to this city.
Thank you to my family
from From Kampala to Delhi.
And thank you to my wife
Rama.
For being my best friend
and for always showing me
the beauty
in everyday things.
And most of all,
thank you to the people of
New York.
A moment like this comes
rarely,
seldom do we hold such an
opportunity
to transform and reinvent.
Rarer still,
is it the people themselves
whose hands
are the ones upon the
levers of change.
And yet we know that too
often in our past,
moments of great
possibility have
been promptly surrendered
to small
imagination and smaller
ambition.
What was promised was never
pursued.
What could have changed
remained the same.
For the New Yorker's most
eager to see
our city remade,
the weight has only grown
heavier.
The weight has only grown
longer.
In writing this address,
I have been told
that this is the occasion
to reset expectations.
That I should use this
opportunity to
encourage the people of New
York to ask
for little and expect even
less.
I will do no such thing.
The only expectation I seek
to reset is that
of small expectations.
Beginning today,
we will govern expansively
and audaciously.
We may not always succeed
but never will we be accused
of lacking the courage to
try.
To those who insist that
the era
of big government is over,
hear me when I say this.
No longer will City Hall
hesitate to use
its power to improve New
Yorkers lives.
For too long we have turned
to the private
sector for greatness while
accepting mediocrity
from those who serve the
public.
I cannot blame anyone who
has come to
question the role of
government,
whose faith in democracy
has been eroded
by decades of apathy.
We will restore that trust
by walking
a different path,
one where government is no
longer solely
the final recourse for
those struggling,
one where excellence is no
longer the exception.
We expect greatness from
and the cooks wielding a
thousand spices,
from those who stride out
onto our Broadway stages,
and from our starting point
guard
at Madison Square Garden.
Let us demand
IN A CITY WHERE THE MERE
NAMES OF OUR
STREETS ARE ASSOCIATED WITH
THE INNOVATION
OF THE INDUSTRIES THAT CALL
THEM HOME,
WE WILL MAKE THE WORD CITY
HALL
SYNONYMOUS WITH BOTH
RESOLVE AND RESULTS.
AS WE EMBARK UPON THIS
WORK,
LET US ADVANCE A NEW
QUESTION,
A NEW ANSWER TO THE
QUESTION ASKED
OF EVERY GENERATION.
WHO DOES NEW YORK BELONG TO?
FOR MUCH OF OUR HISTORY,
THE RESPONSE FROM CITY HALL
HAS BEEN SIMPLE.
IT BELONGS ONLY TO THE
WEALTHY AND WELL
-CONNECTED,
THOSE WHO NEVER STRAINED TO
CAPTURE THE
ATTENTION OF THOSE IN POWER.
WORKING PEOPLE HAVE
RECKONED WITH THE
CONSEQUENCES.
CROWDED CLASSROOMS AND
PUBLIC
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS WHERE
THE
ELEVATORS SIT OUT OF
ORDERS,
ROADS LITTERED WITH POT
HOLES AND
BUSES THAT ARRIVE HALF AN
HOUR LATE,
IF AT ALL.
WAGES THAT DO NOT RISE AND
CORPORATIONS THAT RIP
OFF CONSUMERS AND EMPLOYEES
ALIKE AND STILL
THERE HAVE BEEN BRIEF
FLEETING MOMENTS WHERE
the equation changed.
12 years ago,
Bill de Blasio stood where
I stand now
as he promised to put an
end to economic
and social inequalities
that divided
our city into two.
In 1990, David Dinkins
swore the same
oath I swore today,
vowing to celebrate the
gorgeous mosaic
that is New York where
everyone
of us is deserving of a
decent life.
And nearly six Six decades
before him,
Fiorella LaGuardia took
office with the goal
of building a city that was
far greater
and more beautiful for the
hungry and the poor.
Some of these mayors
achieved more success
than others,
but they were unified by a
shared belief
that New York could belong
to more
than just a privileged few.
It could belong to those
who operate our subways
and rake our parks those
who feed us biryani
and beef patties picanha
and pastrami on rye
and they know that this
belief could be
made true if only
government dared to work
hardest for those who work
hardest.
Over the years to come,
my administration will
resurrect that legacy.
City Hall will deliver an
agenda of safety,
affordability and abundance.
Where government looks and
lives
like the people it
represents,
never flinches in the fight
against corporate greed,
and refuses to cower before
challenges that others have
deemed
too complicated.
In so doing,
we will provide our own
answer
to that age-old question,
who does New York belong to?
Well, my friends,
we can look to Madiba
and the South African
Freedom Charter.
New York belongs to all who
live in it.
Together, we will tell a
new story of our city.
This will not be a tale of
one city governed
only by the 1%.
Nor will it be a tale of
two cities,
the rich versus the poor.
It will be a tale of eight
and a half million cities,
each of them a New Yorker
with hopes and fears,
each a universe,
each of them woven together.
The authors of this story
will speak Pashto
and Mandarin, Yiddish and
Creole.
They will pray in mosques,
at shul, at church,
at gurudwaras and mandirs
and temples.
And many will not pray at
all.
They will be Russian Jewish
immigrants
in Brighton Beach,
Italians in Rossville
and Irish families in
Woodhaven.
Many of whom came here with
nothing but a dream
of a better life.
A dream which has withered
away.
They will be young people
in cramped Marble Hill
apartments where
the walls shake when the
subway passes.
They will be black
homeowners
in St. Albans whose homes
represent
a physical testament to
triumph over decades
of lesser-paid labor and
redlining.
They will be Palestinian
New Yorkers
in Bay Ridge who will no
longer have to
contend with
President Trump a year
before they voted for me.
Tired of being failed
by their party's
establishment.
The majority will not use
the language
that we often expect
from those who wield
influence.
I welcome the change.
For too long,
those fluent in the good
grammar
of civility have deployed
decorum
to mask agendas of cruelty.
Many of these people have
been betrayed
by the established order,
but in our administration
their needs will be met.
Their hopes and dreams
and interests will be
reflected,
transparently in government.
They will shape our future,
and if for too long these
communities
have existed as distinct
from one another,
we will draw this city
closer together.
We will replace the
frigidity
of rugged individualism
with the warmth
of collectivism.
If our campaign
demonstrated that the
people
of New York yearn for
solidarity, then let
it be.
And it will be New Yorkers
who reform a long,
broken property tax system.
New Yorkers who will create
a new Department
of Community Safety that
will TACKLE THE MENTAL
HEALTH CRISIS AND LET THE
POLICE FOCUS ON THE
JOB THEY SIGNED UP TO DO.
NEW YORKERS WHO WILL TAKE
ON THE BAD
LANDLORDS WHO MISTREAT
THEIR TENANTS
AND FREE SMALL BUSINESS
OWNERS FROM THE
SHACKLES OF BLOATED
BUREAUCRACY.
AND I AM PROUD TO BE ONE OF
THOSE NEW YORKERS.
WHEN WE WON THE PRIMARY
LAST JUNE,
THERE WERE MANY WHO SAID
THESE ASPIRATIONS AND
THOSE WHO HELD THEM HAD
COME OUT OF NOWHERE.
YET ONE MAN'S NOWHERE IS
ANOTHER MAN'S
SOMEWHERE.
THIS MOVEMENT CAME OUT OF 8
.5 MILLION
somewheres, taxicab depots
and Amazon warehouses, DSA
meetings
and curbside domino games.
The powers that be had
looked away
from these places for quite
some time
if they'd known about them
at all,
so they dismissed them as
nowhere.
But in our city,
where every corner of these
five
boroughs holds power, there
There is no nowhere,
and there is
no no one.
There is only New York,
and there are only New
Yorkers.
Eight-and-a-half million
New Yorkers will speak
this new era into existence.
It will be loud, it will be
different,
it will feel like the New
York we love.
No matter how long you have
called this city
home, that love has shaped
your life.
I know that it has shaped
mine.
This is the city where I
set land speed
records on my Razor scooter
at the age of 12,
quickest four blocks of my
life.
The city where I ate
powdered donuts
at halftimes during AYSO
soccer games
and realized I probably was
not
going to be going PRO,
THE CITY WHERE I DEVOURED
TWO BIG
SLICES AT CORONET'S PIZZA,
PLAYED CRICKET WITH MY
FRIENDS
AT FERRY POINT PARK AND
TOOK THE
ONE TRAIN TO THE BX10 ONLY
TO STILL
SHOW UP LATE TO BRONX
SCIENCE.
THE CITY WHERE I'VE GONE ON
HUNGER STRIKE JUST
OUTSIDE THESE GATES.
SAT CLAUSTROPHOBIC ON A
STALED N-TRAIN
JUST AFTER ATLANTIC AVENUE
AND
WAITED IN QUIET TERROR FOR
MY
FATHER TO EMERGE FROM 26TH
FEDERAL PLAZA,
THE CITY WHERE I TOOK A
BEAUTIFUL
WOMAN NAMED RAMA.
TO MCCARAN PARK ON OUR
FIRST DATE
AND SWORE A DIFFERENT OATH
TO
BECOME AN AMERICAN CITIZEN
ON PEARL STREET,
TO LIVE IN NEW YORK,
TO LOVE NEW York is to know
that we are the stewards of
something
without equal in our world.
Where else can you hear the
sound
of the steel pan, savor the
smell of Sancocho?
And pay $9 for coffee on
the same block.
Where else could a Muslim
kid
like me grow up eating
bagels
and lox every Sunday.
That love will be our guide
as we pursue our agenda,
here where the language
of the new deal was born.
We will return the vast
resources
of this city to the workers
who call it home.
Not only will we make it
possible
for every New Yorker to
afford
a life they love once
again,
we will overcome the
isolation
that too many feel and
connect
the people of this city to
one another.
The cost of child care will
no longer
DISCOURAGE YOUNG ADULTS
FROM STARTING A FAMILY.
BECAUSE WE WILL DELIVER
UNIVERSAL CHILD CARE
FOR THE MANY BY TAXING THE
WEALTHIEST few.
Those in rent-stabilized
homes will no
longer dread the latest
rent hike,
because we will freeze the
rent.
Getting on a bus without
worrying
about a fair hike or
whether you'll be able to
get to your destination on
time will no longer
be deemed a small miracle
because we will make those
buses fast and free.
These policies are not
simply
about the costs we make
free,
but the lives we fill with
freedom.
For too long in our city,
freedom has belonged only
to those who
can afford to buy it.
Our city hall will change
that.
These promises carried our
movement
to City Hall.
And they will carry us from
the rallying
cries of a campaign to the
realities
of a new era in politics.
Two Sundays ago, as snow
softly fell,
I spent 12 hours at the
Museum
of the Moving Image in
Astoria,
listening to New Yorkers
from every borough
as they told me about the
city that is theirs.
We
discussed construction
hours
on the Van Wick Expressway
and EBT eligibility,
affordable housing for
artists and ice raids.
I spoke to a man named TJ
who said
that one day a few years
ago.
His heart broke as he
realized
that he would never get
ahead here,
no matter how hard he worked.
I spoke to a Pakistani
auntie named
Samina who told me that
this movement
had fostered something too
rare,
softness in people's hearts.
As she said to me in Urdu,
their hearts have changed.
A hundred and forty-two New
Yorkers out of eight
and a half million.
And yet, if anything united
each person sitting
across from me, it was the
shared recognition
that this moment demands a
new politics
and a new approach to power.
We will deliver nothing
less as we work
each day to make this city
belong to more
of its people than it did
the day before.
Here is what I want you to
expect
from the administration
that this morning moved
into the building behind me.
We will transform the
culture of City Hall
from one of no, to one of
how.
We will answer to all New
Yorkers,
not to any billionaire
or oligarch who thinks they
can
buy our democracy.
We will govern without
shame and insecurity,
making no apology for what
we believe.
I was elected as a
Democratic Socialist
and I will govern as a
Democratic socialist,
I will not abandon my
principles for fear
of being deemed radical.
As the great senator from
Vermont once said,
what's radical is a system
which gives
so much to so few and
denies so many
people the basic
necessities of life.
We will strive each day to
ensure
that no New Yorker is
priced out
of any one of those basic
necessities.
And throughout it all, we
will,
in the words of Jason
Terrence Phillips,
better known as Jadakiss or
J to the Mwah.
Be outside.
Because this is a
government of New York,
by New York and for New
Before I end,
I want to ask all of you if
you are able,
whether you are here today
or anywhere watching,
to stand with me.
I ask you to stand with us
now
and every day that follows,
City Hall will not be able
to deliver
on our own.
And while we will encourage
New Yorkers
to demand more from those
with the great
privilege of serving them,
we will encourage you to
demand more
of yourselves as well.
The movement we began over
a year ago
did not end with our
election,
it will not end this
afternoon.
It lives on with every
battle we will fight
together.
Every blizzard and flood we
withstand together.
Every moment of fiscal
challenge we overcome
with ambition, not
austerity, together.
Every way we pursue change
in working people's
interests rather
than at their expense,
together.
No longer will we treat
victory
as an invitation to turn
off the news.
From today onwards,
we will understand victory
very simply.
Something with the power to
transform lives
and something that demands
effort
from each of us every
single day.
What we achieve together
will reach
across the five boroughs
and it will resonate far
beyond.
There are many who will be
watching.
They want to know if the
left can govern.
struggles that afflict
them can be solved.
They want to know if it is
right to hope again.
So standing together with
the wind
of purpose at our backs,
we will do something that
New Yorkers
do better than anyone else.
We will set an example for
the world.
If what Sinatra said is
true,
let us prove that anyone
can make it
in New York and anywhere
else too.
Let us prove
that when a city belongs to
the people,
there is no need too small
to be met,
no person too sick to be
made healthy,
no one too alone to feel
like New
New York is their home.
The work continues.
The work endures.
The work, my friends, has
only just begun.
Thank Thank you.